
  *** text example 4 ***

Structured Query Language (SQL)

A typical DBMS allows users to store, access, and modify data in an organized, 
efficient way. Originally, the users of DBMSs were programmers. Accessing the 
stored data required writing a program in a programming language such as COBOL.
While these programs were often written to present a friendly interface to a 
nontechnical user, access to the data itself required the services of a knowledgeable 
programmer. Casual access to the data was not practical.

Users were not entirely happy with this situation. While they could access data, 
it often required convincing a DBMS programmer to write special software. For example, 
if a sales department wanted to see the total sales in the previous month by each of 
its salespeople and wanted this information ranked in order by each salesperson's length 
of service in the company, it had two choices: Either a program already existed that 
allowed the information to be accessed in exactly this way, or the department had to 
ask a programmer to write such a program. In many cases, this was more work than it 
was worth, and it was always an expensive solution for one-time, or ad hoc, inquiries. 
As more and more users wanted easy access, this problem grew larger and larger.

Allowing users to access data on an ad hoc basis required giving them a language in 
which to express their requests. A single request to a database is defined as a query; 
such a language is called a query language. Many query languages were developed for this 
purpose, but one of these became the most popular: Structured Query Language, invented 
at IBM in the 1970s. It is more commonly known by its acronym, SQL, and is pronounced 
both as "ess-cue-ell" and as "sequel"; this manual uses the former pronunciation. 
SQL became an ANSI standard in 1986 and an ISO standard in 1987; it is used today 
in a great many database management systems.

Although SQL solved the ad hoc needs of users, the need for data access by 
computer programs did not go away. In fact, most database access still was 
(and is) programmatic, in the form of regularly scheduled reports and statistical 
analyses, data entry programs such as those used for order entry, and data 
manipulation programs, such as those used to reconcile accounts and generate 
work orders.

